UPI/Online Payment Scam:
Cybercrime where criminals trick you into giving them your money or providing them with your sensitive banking information using online payment applications is called UPI Fraud. These types of cases have been on the rise in India with the booming numbers of individuals utilizing UPI-type applications on a routine basis (i.e., they are frequently conducting digital payments). The majority of these scams begin when individuals receive a call,message,link that originates from an unidentified number. The individual who is perpetrating the fraud acts as if they are employed by a bank, within customer support services, or even as someone the victim trusts (i.e. someone they know). The fraudster creates a sense of urgency by stating that there is some kind of issue with the person's account or that a payment is awaiting confirmation (i.e., they create a false sense of urgency). The fraudster then requests that the victim provide them with an OTP; UPI PIN; or access/login to their account by clicking on a link. At this point, the victim has provided the fraudster with the information necessary to gain access to the victim's account and stream money from the victim's account. This type of fraud targets many of society's everyday consumers (e.g., students, senior citizens and/or anyone who does not fully understand online security) and results in thousands of dollars of fraudulently taken money. Often, victims put unnecessary trust in the caller without performing proper verification. The effect on the victim can be devastating; in many cases, the victim may experience extreme emotional trauma due to losing money, anxiety, a sense of fear of using online payment methods, and in some cases an inability to recover any of the fraudulently stolen funds.